# myAgendaApp
A rudimentary android application utilizing dialog fragments and a database in order to give a user the ability to set up a to-do list.

This can be run using Android Studio. I used the built-in emulator of the Pixel 3a phone on the Lollipop version of Android OS.
The project consists of 4 different activities. The first is the main activity, which is the home screen of the app. The next is the dialog fragment for adding a to-do list item. Another is a dialog fragment that allows the user to view the item they previously added from the home screen. The final one is the dialog fragment that allows the user to edit their item. The app is built using linear layouts in order to pleasantly direct the user’s eyes. It is built inside of a RecyclerView container as the user may have more items on their to-do list than can fit on the screen at any one time. The color scheme has also been changed in order to give it more of an elegant style and the icon of the app was also changed to let it stand out on the home screen of the device. The app also includes a database and by extension, data persistence, which made sense to include given the app is built to take the stress of needing to remember to do things off of the user. With this information, the app runs smoothly and as expected, and meets all requirements above. With this, we can get into the instructions for the app.
Upon a fresh install, the user won’t see anything on the home screen when opening the app apart from the floating action button in the bottom right corner indicating that this is how we add things to our to-do list. The user must at least type in the name for the item in order to add it to their list. They can also add the date to be completed, the time, and a description. They can also mark it as a high priority item to indicate its urgency. The “ADD” button adds the item to the to-do list using an SQL insertion query. The “CLEAR” button clears the fields and resets the cursor, and the “BACK” button takes the user back to the main activity. Once the user adds the item, the fragment is dismissed and they are now able to see their added item on the main activity, sorted by date. It will show the name, the date and, if high priority, 3 asterisks.

The user can then tap on any one of the items to look at it in more detail. That is, they can see the time it is to be completed by on that date, and view any description they may have typed in. They can also tap the “COMPLETE” button in order to remove the item from the to-do list by triggering an SQL delete query. The “EDIT” button allows the user to update the item (triggers an SQL update query) they are viewing and brings them to another dialog fragment where existing fields are populated and the user can modify the item information and add it back. The “BACK” button will just take the user back to the main activity like before. The user can repeat these steps as many times as they’d like in order to add what they’d like to their list, complete things off of it as well, and edit when needed.
